README.md, before:

# OVRO-LWA Fast Transients

This repository contains the code for the OVRO-LWA Fast Transients project.

## Description

The project is dedicated to building pipelines that aim to detect and analyze fast transients with the OVRO-LWA. 

## Installation

To run the pipeline, the following packages need to be installed:
- [lsl](https://github.com/lwa-project/lsl)
- [psrfits_utils](https://github.com/lwa-project/psrfits_utils)
- [pulsar](https://github.com/lwa-project/pulsar)
- [your](https://github.com/thepetabyteproject/your)
- [hiplot](https://github.com/facebookresearch/hiplot)
- [PyTorchDedispersion](https://github.com/nkosogor/PyTorchDedispersion)


## Pipeline Overview

This repository contains tools for preparing source data in JSON format and running a search pipeline to process this data. The pipeline includes data preparation, conversion, RFI filtering, dedispersion, and visualization using HiPlot.

## Preparing Your Data

### Step 1: Prepare JSON Data

The first step is to prepare the source data in JSON format. Use the `prepare_data.py` script to add new source data to a JSON file. If the JSON file does not exist, the script will create it.

#### Usage:

```bash
python prepare_data.py --file_name <file_name> --ra <RA> --dec <DEC> --dm <DM> --dm_ranges '<DM_RANGES_JSON>' --json_file <path_to_json_file>
```

Arguments:
- `--file_name (-f)`: The name of the voltage beam file.
- `--ra`: The Right Ascension of the source (in degrees).
- `--dec`: The Declination of the source (in degrees).
- `--dm`: The expected Dispersion Measure of the source.
- `--dm_ranges (-dr)`: The DM ranges for the source (in JSON format).
- `--json_file (-json_f)`: The JSON file to save the data to.

### Step 2: Run the Search Pipeline

After preparing your JSON data file, you can run the search pipeline to process the data.

#### Usage:

```bash
python src/pipeline.py <path_to_json_file> --checkpoint <path_to_checkpoint_file>
```

Arguments:
- `<path_to_json_file>`: Path to the JSON file containing the metadata.
- `--checkpoint`: (Optional) Path to the checkpoint file. If this file exists, the pipeline resumes from the last saved state. If it does not exist, the pipeline starts from the beginning, and the state will be saved to this file for future resumptions.

## Pipeline Steps

1. **Conversion**: Converts voltage beam files to .fil format with appropriate channelization to minimize DM smearing effects.

2. **RFI Filtering**: Applies RFI filtering on the `.fil` file, creating a bad channels mask.

3. **Dedispersion**: Processes the `.fil` file to generate dedispersed data and save it as a CSV file containing candidate detections.

4. **Visualization**: Uses HiPlot to visualize the candidate detections and save the visualization as an HTML file.

## Configuration

Make sure to create a `config.ini` file with the paths to the necessary scripts and binaries before running the pipeline (see `config.ini.template`).

## Logs

The pipeline logs its progress and any errors encountered. Check `pipeline.log` for detailed information about the execution of each step.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add automatic DM ranges and steps calculation, improve conversion and documentation

README.md, after:

# OVRO-LWA Fast Transients

This repository contains the code for the OVRO-LWA Fast Transients project.

## Description

The project is dedicated to building pipelines that aim to detect and analyze fast transients with the OVRO-LWA. 

## Installation

To run the pipeline, the following software needs to be installed:
- [LWA Software Library](https://github.com/lwa-project/lsl)
- [PSRFITS utils](https://github.com/lwa-project/psrfits_utils)
- [LWA1 Pulsar Scripts](https://github.com/lwa-project/pulsar)
- [Your Unified Reader](https://github.com/thepetabyteproject/your)
- [High dimensional Interactive Plotting](https://github.com/facebookresearch/hiplot)
- [PyTorch Dedispersion](https://github.com/nkosogor/PyTorchDedispersion)



## Pipeline Overview

This repository contains tools for preparing source data in JSON format and running a search pipeline to process this data. The pipeline includes data preparation, conversion, RFI filtering, dedispersion, and visualization using HiPlot.

## Preparing Your Data

### Step 1: Prepare JSON Data

The first step is to prepare the source data in JSON format. Use the `prepare_metadata.py` script to add new source data to a JSON file. If the JSON file does not exist, the script will create it.

#### Usage:

```bash
python src/prepare_metadata.py --file_name <file_name> --ra <RA> --dec <DEC> --dm <DM> --lo_dm <loDM> --hi_dm <hiDM> --json_file <path_to_json_file>
```

Arguments:
- `--file_name (-f)`: The name of the voltage beam file.
- `--ra`: The Right Ascension of the source (in degrees).
- `--dec`: The Declination of the source (in degrees).
- `--dm`: The expected Dispersion Measure of the source (in pc/cm³).
- `--lo_dm`: The lower bound of the DM range (in pc/cm³).
- `--hi_dm`: The upper bound of the DM range (in pc/cm³).
- `--json_file (-json_f)`: The JSON file to save the data to.

### Step 2: Run the Search Pipeline

After preparing your JSON data file, you can run the search pipeline to process the data.

#### Usage:

```bash
python src/pipeline.py <path_to_json_file> <path_to_checkpoint_file>
```

Arguments:
- `<path_to_json_file>`: Path to the JSON file containing the metadata.
- `<path_to_checkpoint_file>`: Path to the checkpoint file to resume the pipeline.

## Pipeline Steps

1. **Conversion**: Converts voltage beam files to .fil format with appropriate channelization to minimize DM smearing effects.

2. **RFI Filtering**: Applies RFI filtering on the `.fil` file, creating a bad channels mask.

3. **Dedispersion**: Processes the `.fil` file to generate dedispersed data and save it as a CSV file containing candidate detections.

4. **Visualization**: Uses HiPlot to visualize the candidate detections and save the visualization as an HTML file.

## Configuration

Make sure to create a `config.ini` file with the paths to the necessary scripts and binaries before running the pipeline (see `config.ini.template`).

## Logs

The pipeline logs its progress and any errors encountered. Check `pipeline.log` for detailed information about the execution of each step.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
